Gaussian splatting y'all 3D scanning and rendering
is moving so fast I got my Splats up and running
and I am still mind blown getting 100 frames per
second for this complex 3D scene so you probably
heard about photogrammetry and NeRFs how is this
stuff different why should you care let's explore
five reasons why you should care and then let's
get into what's actually happening under the road
cuz this is a really really cool Tech number one
this is way faster than Nerfs for comparison a
Neural Radiance Field for this exact scene would
take around 10 seconds per frame instead I am
zipping around with FPV controls at 100 frames
per second without breaking a sweat though I do
crash a few times towards the end there number two
this is old meets new gge and splatting is super
cool in that it fuses classical computer graphics
and modern deep learning techniques so like NeRFs
this is still a Radiance Field just without that
slower neural rendering part which brings me to
number three unlike NeRFs you have an explicit
representation here so you represent the 3D
scene as a collection of these ellipsoidal Splats
called gaussians the beauty of this technique is
you can do rendering in real time with a couple
of basic computer graphics operations and unlike
photogrammetry which is super fast to render you
still get all those photorealistic effects because
gaussian splatting uses spherical harmonics to
represent all the view-dependent effects and
lighting so surfaces change color when you view
them from different angles giving you all those
photorealistic effects the glint the veneer the
specularities without needing a neural network
and while it doesn't use a neural network the
training loop is very similar to deep learning
finally number five and perhaps the most exciting
gaussian splatting enables direct editing so it's
not just speed with gaussian splatting you get
3D editing support so you can select move delete
stuff even relight stuff this type of editing has
been so much more tedious to do with NeRFs because
they've got this implicit Black Box represent
presentation and oh my God NeRFs are just like
2 years old here's the new Talk of the Town so
you've got speed you've got editability so it's
this like weird Middle Ground between NeRFs and
classical photogrammetry is super super exciting
for creators now if you want a visual comparison
to NeRFs here's the same data set about 334
photos captured with a Sony a7s camera processed
with Luma Ai and instant NGP honestly gaussian
splatting looks the best to me and the fact that
it is real time it just makes it a no-brainer and
to think that NeRFs are only 2 years old it is
wild how quickly things move all right so let's
get into what's actually happening under the hood
all right so check this out this is a gorgeous 3D
scene in New Delhi running at 180 frames per
second absolutely mind-blowing but how does
this magic work exactly so it actually starts
from a point Cloud you probably seen these if
you use any photogrammetry tool the best part is
you don't need a particularly dense Point Cloud
the sparse one that you get right after aligning
or posing your images works great so all you need
to do is use structure for motion whether you use
COLMAP reality capture agisoft meta shape Bentley
context capture really doesn't matter as long as
you have posed imagery and a sparse Point Cloud
you're off to the races with gaussian splatting so
it's this point Cloud that surf as the foundation
to initialize essentially a 3D gaussian splat
centered at each of these points then through
iterative optimization these gaussians are
adjusted to match the original images that
you captured this is where they're still using
gradient descent so while you may not get a
neural network the training Loop is very similar
to machine learning now you obviously can't have
an even distribution of gaussians to model the
complexity of reality so they solve this by having
the density of gaussians adjusted so you have more
gaussians where you need to model the detail for
example the trees in the scene and less where
you don't for example the sky and then the view
dependent lighting is modeled using spherical
harmonics you only optimize the base color at
first and slowly add higher frequency bands over
time so here's the process in a bit more detail
you capture the input imagery photograph the real
scene from multiple viewpoints basically like you
would for photogrammetry then you reconstruct the
cameras with structure-from-motion, essentially
finding common structure across all the images
to figure out the relative 3D position of where
the photos were taken but by virtue of doing this
you also end up with this sparse 3D Point Cloud so
then you take that sparse Point cloud and create
a 3D gaussian splat centered at each of the points
in this SfM point cloud finally the optimization
process begins you start rendering gajin from
the input camera views and comparing the virtual
view to the original View and then use gradients
to optimize the parameters of the gaussians
right the position the size the orientation
to match the photos over time and since you can't
have an even distribution of gaussians to model
the complexity of reality you have adaptive
density control essentially adding removing
and splitting gaussians during this optimization
process to increase the detail where it's needed
for example the trees and remove the detail where
where it's not for example the sky then you start
representing color with spherical harmonics
modeling all these view dependent lighting
effects optimizing the base color first and slowly
adding higher frequency bands over time and look
if you want to spare even more overhead you can
actually turn off these spherical harmonics and
you lose some of the view dependent effects
but oh my God it still models reality way way
better than photogrammetry you don't end up with
these like wonky looking broccoli trees you can
actually see the Lush detail of this tree come
to life and that still blows my mind rendering
is the coolest part you can just optimize the 3D's
gaussians into an image plane and Alpha blend so
instead of rasterizing a bunch of triangles as you
might classically you're just rasterizing a bunch
of these gaussians you project these optimized 3D
gaussians onto an image plane and Alpha blend them
together and modern GPU can just rip through these
computer Graphics operations which is why you
get this amazing 100 frames per second versus 10
seconds per frame oh my God all right so with all
these steps completed you get photorealistic novel
view synthesis that can be rendered interactively
at insane frames per second so compared to Nerfs
this sort of unstructured gaussian representation
gives us simplicity speed and quality so the
ubiquity the ability to distribute these assets
and render them on Modern Computing systems is
absolutely wild I don't need to burn GPU time
just to render out a flythrough or deal with some
of these awkward hybrid representations where you
kind of have a mesh but there's a neural network
working under the hood for the view-dependent
effects you don't need to worry about all of that
so it's kind of cool you got this like OG physics
concept of spherical harmonics providing the
view dependent effects for realism meanwhile
you're using gradient-based optimization of
the gaussian parameters to fit them to match
the real world appearance a nice combination of
computer graphics and ML techniques Call It The
Best of Both Worlds so suddenly you don't have
these heavyweight meshes you can render them on
device on mobile you can render them in a browser
you can render them obviously inside a game engine
and so you've got all these possibilities for
interactive editing and previewing that you just
couldn't do with Nerfs like I cannot overemphasize
the benefit of having this editable discret scene
representation rather than having this sort of
implicit Black Box representation with Nerfs
so this paper is crazy because basically if you
like train it for let's just say 7,000 iterations
it's still better than instant NGP and if you go
to 30,000 it rivals Mip-Nerf and all the other
higher quality approaches for Neural Radiance
Fields now there are limitations which we'll
get to in the future where certain types of
complex lighting and transparency scenarios
are still a little bit difficult this is why it's
such a promising technique that could transform
3D capture and creation forever and why folks
in computer graphics and vision cannot shut up
enough about it gosh it's only been a couple
weeks and already we've got a viewer for Unity
we've got unreal we got folks working on a native
iOS metal viewer there's a webGL web viewer as
well so that's just to start I've got a lot more
test cooking I've got another video in the works
about bringing these data sets into tools like
unity and unreal and all the cool stuff that you
can do there but for now hopefully this gives you
some intuition for what's actually happening under
the hood and why you should care about gaussian
splatting two interesting resources i' point to
if you want to get into more of the technical
side of all of this stuff definitely check out
this video absolutely amazing and if you want to
have easy step-by-step instructions here's another
blog post you should absolutely check out anyway
that's it for this video I want to keep it brief
if you enjoyed it please be sure to drop a like
and a comment on what you'd like to see cover next
any questions you have as well I'd be happy to
answer them and I will see y'all in the next one